
Graduation Policy #3.0007
Part 1. Policy Statement:

Students must meet the South Central Colleges standards for graduation.
Part 2. Purpose/Authority:

The purpose of this policy is to outline the requirements for graduation from South Central College.
Part 3. Scope/Applicability:

This policy applies to all students pursuing a certificate, diploma, or associate degree at South Central College.
Part 4. Definitions:

n/a
Part 5. Major Sections

Requirements
Graduation requirements are in effect at the time the student declares a major and will apply for the duration of program enrollment, as long as the student is continuously enrolled. Students may elect to follow a new catalog, but then must meet all the requirements as stated in that catalog. When a student stops attending South Central College, the student may be subject to the degree, diploma or certificate requirements in effect at the time of re-enrollment.

Students are eligible for graduation when they have successfully fulfilled the stated requirements of an academic award and have met all South Central College degree and program requirements as verified in their degree audit. Any exceptions to published program requirements must be approved and documented before graduation.

Other requirements also include the following:

    A minimum cumulative GPA of 2.00. (Some programs require a higher minimum cumulative GPA).
    D- or above in all required courses. (Some programs require minimum grades of C or better.)
    At least one third of the credits in a program must be completed at South Central College.
    When applicable, complete all courses within the timeframe specified in the program degree audit form.
    For Minnesota Transfer Curriculum, achieve a cumulative GPA of 2.0 or better in the ten goal areas to complete the Minnesota Transfer Curriculum requirement. The MNTC GPA includes transfer courses in the calculation.

Program Completion Information
Students eligible to graduate will receive information and will be encouraged to complete the Program Completion Information Form. Students are encouraged to review their progress with their advisor and determine courses that need to be taken during the last term of enrollment to complete graduation requirements. Any exceptions to published program requirements must be approved and documented before graduation.

Students who submit a Program Completion Information form who do not meet graduation requirements will be notified.

South Central College reserves the right to post certificate, diploma, and degree completion to student academic records upon verification that all program requirements have been satisfied.

Honors
Honors for graduation will be determined based on a student's cumulative GPA at the completion of their program according to the following scale: Honors 3.3-3.49; High Honors 3.5-3.79; and Highest Honors 3.8-4.0. Because the commencement ceremony is held before the term grades have been reported, graduation honors to be listed in the commencement program will be calculated using the most current GPA. Final honors will be calculated when all coursework has been completed and final grades have been recorded and will be listed on the South Central College transcript.